**Title:** **SiLo: A Similarity-Locality based Near-Exact Deduplication Scheme with Low RAM Overhead and High Throughput**

**Source:** **ATC'11**

**Authors:** Wen Xia, Hong Jiang, Dan Feng, and Yu Hua

---

**Summary**

- The problem the paper aims to solve

  - For full index deduplication, the fingerprints are too large to be all stored in the memory. 
  - Access to on-disk index is 1000 times slower than RAM.  So it's necessary to find the way to make full use of RAM, putting the hot fingerprints into RAM.

- How can the paper address the problem? What is the main idea of this paper?

  - **Observation**

    ① Locality Based Deduplication: Some backup stream may lack locality.

    ② Similarity Based Deduplication: Similarity among files may be either lacking or weak.

    ③ Through the analysis of deduplication of different datasets, the paper find that small files will lead to large chunk-lookup index and large files will lead to inaccurate similarity detection.

  - **Similarity Algorithm**

    (1) Group small correlated files and segmenting large files into segments.
  
    (2) Similarity detection among segments instead of among files.

  - **Locality  Algorithm**
  
    (1) Group contiguous segments into Blocks to preserve locality.
  
    (2) Segment Similarity leads to Block Similarity.
  
  - **Combination of Similarity and Locality**
  
    (1) SHTable in RAM to store all segment's representative fingerprint. LHTable in Block to store all fingerprint index.
    
    (2) Similarity detection among segments. Load similar segment’s block into cache and filter the fingerprint in the cache's LHTable.
  
- Validations

  The results of experimentation and analysis show that SiLo can achieve a better performance in both duplicate elimination performance and RAM usage.

---

**Strengthens**  

- The idea of combing similarity and locality is interesting.
- Similarity and locality are effectively preserved through the design of segment and block.

---

**Weaknesses**  

- The organization of this paper is a little messy, some terms are not explained clearly in time.
- Read cache’s size is not mentioned in this paper.

---

**Comments**  

- The calculation algorithm of segment's fingerprint is very important, but it is not involved in the paper.
- Dataset problem.
